packages/agent-toolkit/README.md, before:

# @mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit

A powerful toolkit for building AI agents that interact with the monday.com API. This package provides a set of tools and utilities to help you create AI-powered integrations with monday.com through Model Context Protocol (MCP) implementation.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit
```

## Subpath Exports

The package provides several modular components that can be imported separately:

- `@mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit/mcp` - MCP server implementation
- `@mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit/core` - Core utilities and base classes
- `@mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit/openai` - OpenAI integration

## Available Tools

The toolkit includes several pre-built tools for common Monday.com operations, organized by functionality:

### Item Operations
- `CreateItemTool` - Create a new item in a monday.com board
- `DeleteItemTool` - Delete an item from a board
- `GetBoardItemsTool` - Get items by board id and term
- `CreateUpdateTool` - Create a new update on a specific item
- `ChangeItemColumnValuesTool` - Change the column values of an item in a monday.com board
- `MoveItemToGroupTool` - Move an item to a group in a monday.com board

### Board Operations
- `CreateBoardTool` - Create a monday.com board
- `GetBoardSchemaTool` - Get board schema (columns and groups) by board id
- `CreateColumnTool` - Create a new column in a monday.com board
- `DeleteColumnTool` - Delete a column from a monday.com board

### Account Operations
- `GetUsersTool` - Get users, can be filtered by name or partial name

### Dynamic API Tools
- `AllMondayApiTool` - Execute any Monday.com API operation by generating GraphQL queries and mutations dynamically
- `GetGraphQLSchemaTool` - Fetch the Monday.com GraphQL schema structure including query and mutation definitions
- `GetTypeDetailsTool` - Get detailed information about a specific GraphQL type from the Monday.com API schema

## Usage

Commit message:

Feature/shanee/add list users and teams tool (#62)
Update to add a new tool to list users and teams with or without extended details. 
Can fetch only the current user, users by ids, by name or just search through the account.

Also includes some typo fixes for readme files

packages/agent-toolkit/README.md, after:

# @mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit

A powerful toolkit for building AI agents that interact with the monday.com API. This package provides a set of tools and utilities to help you create AI-powered integrations with monday.com through Model Context Protocol (MCP) implementation.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit
```

## Subpath Exports

The package provides several modular components that can be imported separately:

- `@mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit/mcp` - MCP server implementation
- `@mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit/core` - Core utilities and base classes
- `@mondaydotcomorg/agent-toolkit/openai` - OpenAI integration

## Available Tools

The toolkit includes several pre-built tools for common monday.com operations, organized by functionality:

### Item Operations
- `CreateItemTool` - Create a new item in a monday.com board
- `DeleteItemTool` - Delete an item from a board
- `GetBoardItemsTool` - Get items by board id and term
- `CreateUpdateTool` - Create a new update on a specific item
- `ChangeItemColumnValuesTool` - Change the column values of an item in a monday.com board
- `MoveItemToGroupTool` - Move an item to a group in a monday.com board

### Board Operations
- `CreateBoardTool` - Create a monday.com board
- `GetBoardSchemaTool` - Get board schema (columns and groups) by board id
- `CreateColumnTool` - Create a new column in a monday.com board
- `DeleteColumnTool` - Delete a column from a monday.com board

### Account Operations
- `GetUsersTool` - Get users, can be filtered by name or partial name
- `ListUsersAndTeams` - Get users or teams, either by ids, names or by searching the account

### Dynamic API Tools
- `AllMondayApiTool` - Execute any monday.com API operation by generating GraphQL queries and mutations dynamically
- `GetGraphQLSchemaTool` - Fetch the monday.com GraphQL schema structure including query and mutation definitions
- `GetTypeDetailsTool` - Get detailed information about a specific GraphQL type from the monday.com API schema

## Usage
